doc(plugins): add ChunksWebpackPlugin (#3771)
webpack/webpack.js.org: src/content/plugins/chunks-webpack-plugin.md

---
title: ChunksWebpackPlugin
contributors:
  - yoriiis
related:
  - title: SplitChunksPlugin

>     url: /plugins/split-chunks-plugin

Reviewer: to avoid a redirect on dev we add trailing slashes to relative urls
```suggestion
    url: /plugins/split-chunks-plugin/
```

  - title: The real power of Webpack 4 SplitChunks Plugin
    url: https://medium.com/@Yoriiis/the-real-power-of-webpack-4-splitchunks-plugin-fad097c45ba0
---

> The ChunksWebpackPlugin creates HTML files with entry points and chunks relations to serve your webpack bundles. It is suitable with multiple page application which contains multiple entry points.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ChunksWebpackPlugin` creates HTML files with entry points and chunks relations to serve your webpack bundles. It is suitable with multiple page application that contains multiple entry points.
```

> The `ChunksWebpackPlugin` creates HTML files with entry points and chunks relations to serve your webpack bundles. It is suitable with multiple page application that contains multiple entry points.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `ChunksWebpackPlugin` creates HTML files with entry points and chunks relations to serve your webpack bundles. It is suitable with multi-page applications that contains multiple entry points.
```

> Since Webpack 4, SplitChunksPlugin offer the possibility to optimizes all chunks. It can be particularly powerful, because it means that chunks can be shared even between async and non-async chunks. See the webpack documentation for [`splitChunks.chunks`](https://webpack.js.org/plugins/split-chunks-plugin/#splitchunkschunks).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since webpack 4, `SplitChunksPlugin` offers the possibility to optimizes all chunks. It can be particularly powerful, because it means that chunks can be shared even between async and non-async chunks. See the webpack documentation for [`splitChunks.chunks`](/plugins/split-chunks-plugin/#splitchunkschunks) for details.
```

> This option automatically generate new chunks associated with an entry point. For example, entry points `a.js` and `b.js` share common codes with the file `vendors~a~b.js`.

Reviewer: which option? Can be confusing because we are not in the context of current plugin's option.
```suggestion
`splitChunks.chunks` option can be set to automatically generate new chunks associated with an entry point. For example, entry points `a.js` and `b.js` share common code with the file `vendors~a~b.js`.
```

> With multiple entry points, it can be difficult to identify relation between auto-generated chunks and entry points.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With multiple entry points, it can be difficult to identify relation between the auto-generated chunks and entry points.
```

> The plugin parse the `entrypoints` [Map](https://developer.mozilla.org/fr/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Objets_globaux/Map) object from the webpack compilation to get all valid entry points and associated files. Then, it generates HTML files which include all assets filtered by entry point and the `chunks-manifest.json` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ChunksWebpackPlugin` parses the `entrypoints` [Map](https://developer.mozilla.org/fr/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Objets_globaux/Map) from the webpack compilation to get all valid entry points and associated files. Then, it generates HTML files which include all assets filtered by an entry point and the `chunks-manifest.json` file.
```

## Zero config

> The plugin works without configuration. For advanced usage, see the section [using configuration](#using-a-configuration).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It works without configuration. For advanced usage, see the [using configuration section](#using-a-configuration).
```

## Installation

> The plugin is available as a package with the name of `chunks-webpack-plugin` on [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/chunks-webpack-plugin) and [Github](https://github.com/yoriiis/chunks-webpack-plugin).

Reviewer: links should be meaningful for seo purposes
```suggestion
`ChunksWebpackPlugin` is available on npm as [`chunks-webpack-plugin`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/chunks-webpack-plugin) and as [`chunks-webpack-plugin` on Github](https://github.com/yoriiis/chunks-webpack-plugin).
```

Author: I think there is a mistake with the bracket on the Github link, I will updates the line in a separate commit

Author: Okay I understand, it is perhaps not a mistake. I find the notation with the double links (npm and npm) a little ambiguous. I have test other example, what do you think?

1-
```text
`ChunksWebpackPlugin` is available on npm as [`chunks-webpack-plugin`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/chunks-webpack-plugin). See the [Github](https://github.com/yoriiis/chunks-webpack-plugin) page for details.
```

2-
```text
`ChunksWebpackPlugin` is available on [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/chunks-webpack-plugin) and [Github](https://github.com/yoriiis/chunks-webpack-plugin) as `chunks-webpack-plugin`.
```

3- Only one link perhaps, Github or npm ?

Reviewer: keep both, but make sure github link doesnt just say github, e.g. output `<a href="https://github.com/yoriiis/chunks-webpack-plugin">Github</a>` is not seo friendly, say exactly what its linking, it does link `chunks-webpack-plugin on Github`

```bash
npm install chunks-webpack-plugin --save-dev
```

```bash
yarn add chunks-webpack-plugin --dev
```

## Environment

> ChunksWebpackPlugin was built for Node.js `>=8.11.2` and webpack `>=4.x`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ChunksWebpackPlugin` was built for Node.js `>=8.11.2` and webpack `>=4.x`.
```

## Example

> For example implementation, please see the [Github documentation](https://github.com/yoriiis/chunks-webpack-plugin/blob/master/README.md#example).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example usage, please see the [`ChunksWebpackPlugin` Github documentation](https://github.com/yoriiis/chunks-webpack-plugin/blob/master/README.md#example).
```

## Basic usage

> The plugin will generate two HTML files for each entry points. Each filename contains the entry point name, the `{{entry}}` placeholder is automatically replaced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ChunksWebpackPlugin` will generate two HTML files for each entry point. Each filename contains the entry point name, the `{{entry}}` placeholder is automatically replaced.
```

- `{{entry}}-styles.html`: contains all HTML `<link>` tags
- `{{entry}}-scripts.html`: contains all HTML `<script>` tags

First, let's add the plugin to the webpack configuration.

```js

> var ChunksWebpackPlugin = require('chunks-webpack-plugin');

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const ChunksWebpackPlugin = require('chunks-webpack-plugin');
```

Author: Fix in this [commit](https://github.com/webpack/webpack.js.org/pull/3771/commits/db69028c10ceaae65d296b3d28412c5f13fc154e#diff-d8ef1796282805fac08fc65ac89c9633R56)

> var path = require('path');

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const path = require('path');
```

Author: Fix in this [commit](https://github.com/webpack/webpack.js.org/pull/3771/commits/db69028c10ceaae65d296b3d28412c5f13fc154e#diff-d8ef1796282805fac08fc65ac89c9633R56)

module.exports = {
  entry: 'main.js',
  output: {
    filename: 'main.js',
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, './dist')
  },
  plugins: [new ChunksWebpackPlugin()]
};
```

> HTML files are built in the output path directory with all the other assets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HTML files are built in the output path directory with the rest of the webpack output.
```

> Then, include the HTML files in the wanted pages.

Reviewer: What do you mean? Are you describing what plugin does or what user has to do?

Author: The first line (L69) describe what plugin does.
The second line (L71) describe what user has to do to use this generated HTML files.

HTML files are generated by the plugin but need to be includes by the user in the wanted pages. True, I have not described this part because I didn't want to add a language dependencies like the `include` in PHP or Twig.

But we can clarify this part if you want.

Reviewer: ok i think i understand, maybe go for this or along these lines:
```suggestion
Now you can include the outputted HTML files into your HTML page templates. You can do it with e.g. Twig or PHP.
```

__main-styles.html__

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="main.css" />
```

__main-scripts.html__

```html
<script src="main.js"></script>
```

---

## Using a configuration

> You can pass configuration options to ChunksWebpackPlugin to overrides default settings. Allowed values are as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can pass a configuration object to `ChunksWebpackPlugin` to override the default settings.
```

### `outputPath`

`string = null`

Tells the plugin whether to personalize the output path of the generated files.

```js
new ChunksWebpackPlugin({
  outputPath: path.resolve(__dirname, './templates')
});
```

> T> The default behavior will use the  `options.output.path` from the [webpack configuration](https://webpack.js.org/configuration/output/#outputpath).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
T> By default, plugin will use the [`output.path` option](/configuration/output/#outputpath) value.
```

W> The `outputPath` must be an absolute path.

### `fileExtension`

`string = '.html'`

Tells the plugin whether to personalize the extension of the generated files.

```js
new ChunksWebpackPlugin({
  fileExtension: '.html'
});
```

### `templateStyle`

`string = '<link rel="stylesheet" href="{{chunk}}" />'`

> Tells the plugin whether to personalize the default template for the HTML `<style>` tags. For example, add additional attributes, a CDN prefix or something else.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tells the plugin whether to personalize the default template for the HTML `<style>` tags. For example, add additional attributes or a CDN prefix.
```

```js
new ChunksWebpackPlugin({

>   templateStyle: '<link rel="stylesheet" href="{{chunk}}" />'

Reviewer: Please provide a meaningful example, not the default value 
```suggestion
  templateStyle: '<link rel="stylesheet" href="{{chunk}}" />'
```

Author: I have add a CDN prefix in this [commit](https://github.com/webpack/webpack.js.org/pull/3771/commits/8cac60f7c3a1a6cfb4def7be6962790b4135c294)

});
```

T> Keep the `{{chunk}}` placeholder, it is automatically replaced by the concatenation of the webpack public path and the chunk filename.

### `templateScript`

`string = '<script src="{{chunk}}"></script>'`

> Tells the plugin whether to personalize the default template for the HTML `<script>` tags. For example, add additional attributes, a CDN prefix or something else.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tells the plugin whether to personalize the default template for the HTML `<script>` tags. For example, add additional attributes or a CDN prefix.
```

```js
new ChunksWebpackPlugin({

>   templateScript: '<script src="{{chunk}}"></script>'

Reviewer: Please provide a meaningful example, not the default value 
```suggestion
  templateScript: '<script src="{{chunk}}"></script>'
```

Author: I have add a `defer` attribute in this [commit](https://github.com/webpack/webpack.js.org/pull/3771/commits/8cac60f7c3a1a6cfb4def7be6962790b4135c294)

});
```

T> Keep the `{{chunk}}` placeholder, it is automatically replaced by the concatenation of the webpack public path and the chunk filename.

### `customFormatTags`

> `false || function (chunksSorted, files)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`boolean: false` `function (chunksSorted, files) => object`
```

Author: Sorry, the parameter `files` is wrong, in the example the name is correct.
I will updates this line in a separate commit.

```js
`boolean: false` `function (chunksSorted, Entrypoint) => object`
```

Author: Fix in this [commit](https://github.com/webpack/webpack.js.org/pull/3771/commits/db69028c10ceaae65d296b3d28412c5f13fc154e#diff-d8ef1796282805fac08fc65ac89c9633R149)

> Tells the plugin whether to personalize the default behavior for generate your own templates. The function is called for each entry points. Custom behavior can also be add for a specific entry point if necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tells the plugin whether to personalize the default behavior for generating your own templates. The function is called for each entry point. Can be used to add a custom behavior for a specific entry point.
```

```js
new ChunksWebpackPlugin({
  customFormatTags: (chunksSorted, Entrypoint) => {
    // Generate all HTML style tags with a CDN prefix
    const styles = chunksSorted.styles.map(chunkCss =>
      `<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://cdn.domain.com/${chunkCss}" />`
    ).join('');

    // Generate all HTML style tags with CDN prefix and defer attribute
    const scripts = chunksSorted.scripts.map(chunkJs =>
      `<script defer src="https://cdn.domain.com/${chunkJs}"></script>`
    ).join('');

    return { styles, scripts };
  }
});
```

T> The arrow function syntax allow you to access the class properties.

W> The function provides more flexibility by replacing the default behavior. Follow the example above to make sure it works.

The function must return an object with the following format:

> ```json

Reviewer: JavaScript object is not in JSON format unless converted
```suggestion
```json
```

Author: True, I updated the doc in this [commit](https://github.com/webpack/webpack.js.org/pull/3771/commits/df67afc4803ebc0732697c768069fa5495e294d0)

return {
  styles: '',
  scripts: ''
};
```

> The `customFormatTags` function has two parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

#### `chunksSorted`

`object`

The list of the chunks sorted by type: `styles` and `scripts`.

#### `Entrypoint`

> `Object`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`object`
```

The object is included in every single ChunkGroup. The variable contains all information about the current entry point; log it on the console for more details.

W> Use this variable only for a full customization if the `chunksSorted` variable does not meet your needs.

### `generateChunksManifest`

`boolean = false`

> Tells the plugin whether to generate the `chunks-manifest.json`. The file contains the list of all the chunks grouped by entry points.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tells the plugin whether to generate the `chunks-manifest.json`. The file contains the list of all chunks grouped by entry points.
```

```js
new ChunksWebpackPlugin({

>   generateChunksManifest: false

Reviewer: It is common to showcase a non-default setting
```suggestion
  generateChunksManifest: true
```

Author: Thanks for the advice!

});
```

Example of the output of the `chunks-manifest.json` file:

```json
{
  "app-a": {
    "styles": ["/dist/css/vendors~app-a~app-b.css", "/dist/css/app-a.css"],
    "scripts": ["/dist/js/vendors~app-a~app-b.js", "/dist/js/app-a.js"]
  },
  "app-b": {
    "styles": ["/dist/css/vendors~app-a~app-b.css", "/dist/css/app-b.css"],
    "scripts": ["/dist/js/vendors~app-a~app-b.js", "/dist/js/app-b.js"]
  }
}
```

### `generateChunksFiles`

`boolean = true`

Tells the plugin whether to generate the HTML files.

```js
new ChunksWebpackPlugin({

>   generateChunksManifest: true

Reviewer: wrong option in the example
```suggestion
  generateChunksFiles: false
```

});
```

> W> This option cancels the main functionality of the plugin and HTML files will not be generated. It can be useful only with addition of `generateChunksManifest` option for a custom generation of the HTML files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
W> When set to `false`, HTML files will not be generated. It can only be useful together with  `generateChunksManifest` option set to `true` for custom generation of the HTML files.
```

### Caching

> The [webpack caching](https://webpack.js.org/guides/caching) feature allows you to generate HTML files that include hash in the filename.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [webpack caching](/guides/caching/) feature allows you to generate HTML files that include hash in the filename.
```

```js

> var ChunksWebpackPlugin = require('chunks-webpack-plugin');

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const ChunksWebpackPlugin = require('chunks-webpack-plugin');
```

const path = require('path');

module.exports = {
  entry: 'main.js',
  output: {
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, './dist'),
    filename: 'bundle.[contenthash].js'
  },
  plugins: [new ChunksWebpackPlugin()]
};
```

This will generate the following HTML files with hash in the filename.

__main-styles.html__

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="main.72dd90acdd3d4a4a1fd4.css" />
```

__main-scripts.html__

```html
<script src="main.72dd90acdd3d4a4a1fd4.js"></script>
```

### Multiple entry points

> Example of the webpack configuration with multiple entry points which share common code:

Author: @EugeneHlushko I think this example can be ambiguous because I've write `common code` but there is no optimization in the webpack configuration. What do you think?

We can update the text to clarify this point

```text
Example of the webpack configuration with multiple entry points which share common code with the `splitChunks` parameter.
```

And add the following lines in the config like the [example](https://github.com/yoriiis/chunks-webpack-plugin/blob/master/example/webpack.config.js#L111-L114) ?

```js
optimization: {
	splitChunks: {
		chunks: 'all'
	}
}
```

Reviewer: makes sense

Author: Update in this [commit](https://github.com/webpack/webpack.js.org/pull/3771/commits/e0021d249159e494ba617348eb93bb1d37b35530).

```js

> var ChunksWebpackPlugin = require('chunks-webpack-plugin');

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const ChunksWebpackPlugin = require('chunks-webpack-plugin');
```

Since webpack 4, `SplitChunksPlugin` offers the possibility to optimizes all chunks. It can be particularly powerful, because it means that chunks can be shared even between async and non-async chunks. See the webpack documentation for [`splitChunks.chunks`](/plugins/split-chunks-plugin/#splitchunkschunks) for details.

`splitChunks.chunks` option can be set to automatically generate new chunks associated with an entry point. For example, entry points `a.js` and `b.js` share common code with the file `vendors~a~b.js`.

With multiple entry points, it can be difficult to identify relation between the auto-generated chunks and entry points.

`ChunksWebpackPlugin` parses the `entrypoints` [Map](https://developer.mozilla.org/fr/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Objets_globaux/Map) from the webpack compilation to get all valid entry points and associated files. Then, it generates HTML files which include all assets filtered by an entry point and the `chunks-manifest.json` file.

## Zero config

It works without configuration. For advanced usage, see the [using configuration section](#using-a-configuration).

## Installation

> `ChunksWebpackPlugin` is available on npm as [`chunks-webpack-plugin`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/chunks-webpack-plugin) and as [`chunks-webpack-plugin` on Github](https://github.com/yoriiis/chunks-webpack-plugin).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`ChunksWebpackPlugin` is available on npm as [`chunks-webpack-plugin`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/chunks-webpack-plugin) and as [`chunks-webpack-plugin` on GitHub](https://github.com/yoriiis/chunks-webpack-plugin).
```
